[Concept Entry] Ai Neural Networks (ANN) (#2190)
Codecademy/docs: content/ai/concepts/neural-networks/terms/artificial-neural-networks/artificial-neural-networks.md

---
Title: 'Artificial Neural Networks'
Description: 'A neural network is a method in artificial intelligence that teaches computers to process data in a way that is inspired by the human brain.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Machine Learning'

>   - 'ANN'

Author: done

  - 'Neural Networks'
  - 'Weight & Bias'

>   - 'Brain Activity' 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think Brain Activity is a great tag, as it's only tangential to computer science.

Author: done

  - 'Deep Learning'
  - 'Perceptrons'
CatalogContent:
  - 'machine-learning'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> **Artificial neural networks (ANN)** A method in artificial intelligence which teaches computers to process data in a similar way such as the human brain. 

Author: done

## What Is An Artificial Neural Network (ANN)

- An ANN a type of machine learning process, called deep learning, that uses interconnected nodes or neurons in a layered structure that resembles the human brain.
- An ANN is one of the main tools used for machine learning, it is a brain-inspired system used to replicate the way that humans learn.

### The Process

> - Neural networks are trained on specific data which then get broken down into the input layer (where information is fed into) then to the hidden layer (where weight and bias are calculated from the input layer) and lastly the output layer (where information is output after algorithms are processed from the hidden and input layers) via perceptrons (similar to human neurons but for machines to process, store, calculate and move data forward)

Author: done

## Relation To AI

### AI

- AI works on a collection of technologies which allow the computer to sense, learn, reason & act, it powers algorithms which are instructions encoded in computer programs.
- AI works because of machine learning which is equipped with algorithms and vast amounts of datasets trained to recognize patterns and solve complex problems.

### ANN

- Neural networks are the core of machine learning algorithms. A neural network is trained on specific datasets from which it extracts the information and passes it through different layers searching for patterns.

> - Once a neural networks is trained on a dataset it can start to encounter new scenarios and start making predictions based off that previous dataset. 

Author: done

---
Title: 'Artificial Neural Networks'
Description: 'A neural network is a method in artificial intelligence that teaches computers to process data in a way that is inspired by the human brain.'
Subjects:

>   - 'Machine Learning'

Reviewer: The subjects you've added are more appropriate as tags. This is the suggested subjects for this entry:
```
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Computer Science'
```

Author: @SSwiniarski copy that, should I deleted the rest of the subjects & leave only those 2? 
And also is it ok if I delete the other 2 branches?

  - 'Brain Activity'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Deep Learning'
  - 'Perceptrons'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'ANN'
  - 'Neural Networks'
  - 'Weight & Bias'

>   - 'Neurons'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This tag is duplicative of Neural Networks, and is less precise.

Author: done

CatalogContent:
  - 'machine-learning'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> **Artificial Neural Networks (ANN)** A neural network is a method in artificial intelligence that teaches computers to process data in a way that is inspired by the human brain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Artificial neural networks (ANN)** are a method in artificial intelligence that teaches computers to process data in a way that is inspired by the human brain. 

```

Author: done

Author: @HishamT ill re-word it.

## What Is An Artificial Neural Network (ANN)

> - It is a type of machine learning process, called deep learning, that uses interconnected nodes or neurons in a layered structure that resembles the human brain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An ANN is a type of machine learning process, called deep learning, that uses interconnected nodes or neurons in a layered structure that resembles the human brain.
```

Author: done

> - An ANN is one of the main tools used for machine learning, they are brain-inspired systems used to replicate the way that we humans learn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An ANN is one of the main tools used for machine learning, it is a brain-inspired system used to replicate the way that humans learn.
```
We don't like first or second person pronouns in Docs.

Author: copy, done.

### The Process

> - Neural Networks are trained on specific data which then get broken down into the input layer ( where information is fed into) then to the hidden layer (where weight & bias are calculated from the input layer) & lastly the output layer ( where information is output after algorithms are processed from the hidden & input layers) via perceptrons (similar to human neurons but for machines to process, store, calculate & move data forward)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Neural networks are trained on specific data which then get broken down into the input layer (where information is fed into) then to the hidden layer (where weight & bias are calculated from the input layer) and lastly the output layer (where information is output after algorithms are processed from the hidden and input layers) via perceptrons (similar to human neurons but for machines to process, store, calculate & move data forward)
```

Author: done but what about the & between (weight & bias)?

Author: also (calculate & move data)?

Reviewer: @DevGat718 Yes, I missed those.

Author: copy im on it. @SSwiniarski

## Relation To AI

> ### Part 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AI
```

Author: done

> - AI works on a collections of technologies which allow the computer to sense, learn, reason & act, it powers algorithms which are instructions encoded in computer programs.

Author: done

> - AI works because of machine learning which is equipped with algorithms & vast amounts of datasets trained to recognize patterns & solve complex problems.

Author: done

> ### Part 2

Author: done

> - Neural Networks are the core for ML algorithms, Neural Networks are trained on specific datasets which it extracts the information from & passes it through different layers searching for patterns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Neural networks are the core of machine learning algorithms. A neural network is trained on specific datasets from which it extracts the information and passes it through different layers searching for patterns.
```

Author: done

> - Neural Networks are the core for ML algorithms, Neural Networks are trained on specific datasets which it extracts the information from & passes it through different layers searching for patterns.

Author: done

> - Once Neural Networks are trained on a dataset it can start to encounter new scenarios & start making predictions based off that previous dataset. 

Author: done
